# Anonymizing the Sessions

Contributers:
- Anushree Manoharrao (documentation) Spring 2022

## Understanding how to configure the class Session Key

The class SessionKey is managing a dictionary to anonymize a session in GMU format (e.g., 202140 is the GMU format for a sesssion, which correspond to Summer 2021) to a number, keeping the chronological order not changed.

There are two files asssociated with sessions:
- config/session-config.json: keeps the configuration data on how to generate the anonymized values for the sessions
- key/sessionKeys.txt: keeps the current generated anonymized values for the sessions (if any)

Before you use session keys, you must define the configuration file. However, you do not need to define the key file, because this will be generated automatically by the code.

### Sample session-config.json
The file must contain values for all the following, as in the example below:
- Start year and end year are inclusive and specify the range for which the anonymized session values are defined.
- List of semesters, contains the current GMU semesters, where 10,40,70 are Spring, Summer and Fall respectively.
- To randomize the session values, a start value along with a range for min and max step is used. The first key will start after the start key and for each next session (chronologically) a random value between min and max (inclusive) will be added. 

```
{ 
 "start_year": 2004, 
 "end_year": 2030,
 "semesters_list": [10, 40, 70],
 "start_key": 100,
 "min_step": 10,
 "max_step": 100
}
```

### Sample of output in sessionKeys.txt
 - 200040, 198   - Summer of 2000 is mapped to 198
 - 200070, 250   - Fall of 2000 will be mapped to a number greater than 198 added to a value randomly chosen between 10 and 100
>
The new anonymized values are added in the same chronological pattern as seen above.

- session-config.json has to be created under a new folder <strong>config</strong> with a path like  "../config/session-config.json"
- sessionKeys.txt has to be created under the same root path with a new folder <strong>key</strong> with a path like  "../key/sessionKeys.txt"

## Understanding how to call the class Session Key

To use the anonymized sessions you must:
- import the class
```
import session_key;
```
- create only one instance of the class (do not duplicate the call)
```
sessionKey = session_key.SessionKey()
```

This will create an instance and load or initialize its anonymization dictioary. To obtain the anonymized value for a given session (e.g. 201040) you will call:
```
anonymizedSessionCode = self.sessionKey.dictionary[sessionCode]
```

## Understanding how the class Session Key is coded

### Explaining sessionsKeys.txt

If the sessionsKeys.txt file exists, 
- then the function <strong>load</strong> is executed. 
- else, <strong> generate </strong> and <strong> save </strong> functions are executed in that order. 

### The load function is performing the following operations:
<ul>
  <li>  It opens the sessionKeys.txt that contains the anonymized values for the sessions and reads it line by line </li>
  <li>  Each line looks like "200410 166", it has the actual session on its first and the second part has the anonymized value for that session.</li>
  <li>  Each of these lines are split based on space and saved in dictionary as a key-value pair where actual session is key and its corresponding anonymized number is the value. </li>
 <li> For the above session the parts would look like ['200410', '166'], where parts[0] is the key with 200410 and parts[1] is it's value with 166.</li>
 <li> All of the session values are stored in this format. </li>
 </ul>

### The generate function is performing the following operations:
<ul>
  <li>  It uses the <strong>session-config.json</strong> file to generate the sessionkey.txt file </li>
  <li>  It opens and loads the session-config.json file </li>
  <li>  Generates the sessionkeys for the duration mentioned in the start_year and end_year of json file, e.g., from 2000 to 2030 </li>
  <li>  It generates two values and is stored as a dictionary using the below technique
    <ul>
      <li>  The first value which is the anonymizing the year is generated by performing (year*100) +sem </li>
      <li>  Second value which is a key to each year is generated by adding the previous key to a randomly generated integer between the defined range of minstep and         maxstep, incrementing it for every year in chronological order </li> 
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>  The generated dictionary is saved by executing the “save” function </li>
</ul>

### The save functions is performing the following operations:
<ul>
 <li>  It creates a new file by writing to sessionkeys.txt file. </li>
 <li>  It does so by reading from the dictionary that was generated,  based on keys sorted in order</li>
 <li>  It then appends the session as key and the corresponding anonymized value as value to a single line, using space as delimiter.</li>
 <li>  This is exactly reverse of what happened in the load function. Load function first reads the line and splits it to key-value pair, and here it reads the key-value pair to make it a single value. </li>
</ul>








=======

 For the session key there needs to be
#a configurated file to generate keys if there is no file that the file is randomly generated with keys. def load(Self)
#used to open the file and read the data only after this is done the user needs to save the file and then input data
#Once the file is input the data gets allocated and generated for startyear, endyear, lastkey, minstep, maxstep and semster
#following the generate code there is then added randomization code to keep privacy of students lastKey += random.randint(minStep, maxStep)
finally - Initialize and checks if file exist if does not generates a new data it saves it.s

